---
layout: post
title: Redux
date: 2012-03-29 21:18
tags: []
published: true
---
Before this post existed, there was a blog with a different design running on **itaiferber.net**. Before that, I had a small (and quite empty) portfolio site running on **itaiferber.com** (prior to foolishly lost the domain). Before that, I tried maintaining a Tumblr blog, and before *that*, a WordPress one. Somehow, I manage to keep trying my best to create blogs, abandon them after one or two test posts, delete them in embarrassment, and then repeat the whole process. I might just hold some kind of record for being one of the most persistent failed website owners. Like clockwork, every couple of months over the last couple of years, I've gotten an Idea (capitalized, because it was important), something I felt like I had a lot to say about, but no one to say it to, mostly because none of my friends are geeks, or like Macs, or care about pens, or really hold any interest in whatever silly topic I was wanting to gush about. So off to blogging about it I went.

When I started writing on **itaiferber.net** (which, to date, has housed an astonishing total of 4 blog posts), I was trying really hard to emulate some of my favorite writers ([Shawn Blanc](http://shawnblanc.net), [Ben Brooks](http://brooksreview.net), [Brett Terpstra](http://brettterpstra.com), [John Gruber](http://daringfireball.net)). And I failed at it pretty hard too, because I was trying to write like people whose style I couldn't match (not to mention people whose job it is to write, and who have the time to write as prolifically as they do). I had bought a website theme, set up my site as a Jekyll template, and started writing. And then, just as quickly, stopped. Because I didn't have the time to write, and couldn't live up to my own expectations. I don't have the time or the energy to write 3 posts a day, or even 3 posts a week, or perhaps even 3 posts a month, and so I bummed myself out pretty quickly, and stopped altogether.

I've realized, though, that this outlet is important to me. Because really, there are some things I want to get out there. Some opinions I hold, some technical information I want to share. Things that I know no one will read (because now, with modern day site statistics, I can watch my site gather dust in real time!), but things that are important for me to say anyway. So this time around, I decided to go for a different approach. Instead of looking at the authors I like and trying to copy their site structure and layout and their content and their voice, I decided that I should copy myself. I should be my own favorite writer and author. My site should be designed as I would want to read it. So I cut out all the crap that wasn't important, and outsourced information elsewhere. Want to see my portfolio? It's on [StackOverflow Careers](http://careers.stackoverflow.com/itaiferber). Looking for a colophon? There isn't one. You can find me on [Twitter](https://twitter.com/itaiferber) and [GitHub](https://github.com/itaiferber) to easily to see things I've written or released. I've decided to focus on only what matters - my writing - because it's what I'm looking to most improve. Most of all, for the first time, I've designed my site myself, from the ground up. It fits my criteria for a) looking nice, b) working on all my devices, in all their shapes and sizes, and c) having great typography. That's what I care about, and that's what I want to see.

I try not to sound like the ["Sorry I Haven't Updated Supercut"](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YYC2yQURA-Q) video, but it's really refreshing, I think, to finally have something I designed myself, that works the way I want it. Besides, I've already got topics and content I want to write about. So, to the imaginary people I'm writing to write now, welcome, and stay tuned for some upcoming posts.