---
layout: post
title: The Great Internet Switchboard
date: 2012-04-25 15:53
tags: []
published: true
---
A few weeks ago, I ordered a new pair of headphones, the BrainWAVZ (pronounced like 'brainwaves') HM5s. They're great headphones, and I like them a lot. But this isn't about the headphones. This is about why and how I got them, and about what I saw along the way.

I'm a real geek at heart, and very much a perfectionist. I like knowing I have the best of whatever my money can buy, even if I don't necessarily need it. Before I buy almost anything, I'll read reviews of it, product descriptions, press releases, whatever I can to know as much about the product as possible. I compare it to similar products — can I buy something better? If I find I can spend just a bit more money to get something better, I'll do that. If I can find something for cheaper, even better. I put more research into buying pens than most people would into buying television sets or phones. That's just part of me; an obsessive, perfection-seeking part of me.

And that bleeds into other parts of my life. I love listening to music, and have ever since I was a child. I listen to music daily — while on public transportation, while taking a walk, while doing homework, and while studying for tests. Since music is such a big part of my life, it just has to be perfect. It would pain me to own low-quality music. Seeing a number lower than 320kbps MP3 or 256kbps AAC in my iTunes library bothers me deeply and I try to do my best to ignore whatever music I wasn't able to get in perfect form. I download FLAC when I can, and I'm grateful the iTunes store stepped its quality up to 256kbps. Mind you, it's not necessarily that I can tell the difference between 192kbps MP3 and lossless, but it's just *knowing* that I don't have the best thing that bothers me.

I own a set of [Bowers & Wilkins P5s](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B003IHUHGE/ref=as_li_tf_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=itafer-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B003IHUHGE) (note: affiliate link), bought at an Apple store, and they've been quite good to me. They're swell headphones: portable, comfortable, and stylish. But after three years, they've started to show some wear and tear, it was starting to bug me that I had paid so much money for them ($300) without doing that much research. They sounded pretty good to me, but maybe it was time to replace them. Could I have gotten something better for cheaper? Down the rabbit hole I went, in search of my answer.

Let me skip to the end here, for a while, and say this. What I found astounded me. Not at all because I found a better set of headphones, but because of this: while searching for something so mundane as a new set of headphones, I took a step back and tried to look at the bigger picture — of what I was doing, and how I was doing it. And it amazed me. As a geek, as someone who knows how to use computers and the internet, as someone who's not content to amble down to the nearest RadioShack (if there even is one anymore) and buy the first pair of headphones I see, it really blew my mind to take a look at my process. To see what I could access.

I very quickly ended up on a website called [Head-Fi](http://head-fi.org) that features a large forum of audiophiles and headphone lovers, full of reviews and pictures and questions and impressions. It's a huge community of the very people who knew all about what it is I wanted to know. So I looked around, hunting for the information I wanted. And boy did I find it.

For any product category you're looking for, there's a huge array of products that are readily and publicly available — I'm sure that anyone looking for headphones would arrive at Bose or Sennheiser pretty quickly, and they'd be pretty content overpaying for their headphones without worrying about it at all. But there are larger, outer rings of products that are harder to find, that aren't always listed on Amazon, that you won't find on your own. It's a sort of gray area, full of products on some somewhat shady-looking websites that my mother would be wary of purchasing from. Almost like the outskirts of a large industrial city. This is where the real fans hang out. The *real* products are here: the really, really good stuff. After a lot of research, I'd made my selection, made the order, and waited six weeks to get my headphones.

Twenty years ago, there'd be no way I'd get a pair of [BrainWAVZ HM5s](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B006MA9XXM/ref=as_li_qf_sp_asin_il_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=itafer-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative=9325&creativeASIN=B006MA9XXM) (which have now made their way to Amazon). I wouldn't have heard about them, wouldn't have found them, and wouldn't have even known they existed. I wouldn't have known where to look for them, or even to start looking for them. Twenty years ago, I wouldn't have found Head-Fi. I wouldn't have found the community built around loving and appreciating headphones. Without Google or search engines, I doubt I even would have bothered looking for anything other than what I had, because short of asking around or finding a local store that carried headphones, there wouldn't have even been a way to do what I did in the course of a few days.

And that's what amazed me. *Man* is it a good time to be a geek. To be someone who knows how to use the internet, and search engines, properly. Who can let their curiosity lead them to the darkest corners of the internet. Because being able to do that is like having a key to every door out there. It's like being in control of the largest switchboard in the world. You want to tap in to the world of headphones? No problem. *Not only does that exist, but you can find it and get to it.* You want to find a group of people who are enthusiastic about animals? Here you go. *That's not even a specific enough query anymore, because there are so many subcategories of these groups that it boggles the mind.* You can get anywhere you want. It reminds me of the scene in the Matrix where the Keymaker is taking Neo to the Source — there are infinite doors and portals you can walk through, and you've got the keys to all of them.

So, where do you want to go?